README.md, before:

# Delia

> [!WARNING]
> This project is under active development!

The Delia project is a complement to the [Polka Storage](https://github.com/eigerco/polka-storage) project,
being the frontend for file upload to the network's providers.

## Getting Started

### Polkadot Extension

Delia will require you to use the [Polkadot.js browser extension](https://polkadot.js.org/extension/).
For instructions on how to add your own account, refer to the extension documentation:

* https://polkadot.js.org/docs/extension/usage
* https://polkadot.js.org/docs/extension/

### Preparing a storage deal

1. Start by selecting an account from the *Client Account* field.

![](static/deal-making/client-account.png)

2. Select your file, either by dragging it or clicking the following field:

![](static/deal-making/drag-n-drop.png)

3. (Optional) You can add a description to your deal.

![](static/deal-making/label.png)

4. Select your deal's duration.

![](static/deal-making/duration.png)

5. Finally, select your storage providers:

![](static/deal-making/select-provider.png)

6. Click "Continue" to sign your deals and you're done!
   After the deal is finished, you should receive a receipt file,
   it will come in handy to retrieve your files!

### Retrieve your file

To retrieve your file, simply upload the receipt you received upon finishing your deals
in the "Deal Retrieval" page and press "Continue".

![](static/deal-retrieval/widget.png)

Commit message:

docs: add section on account balance (#64)

README.md, after:

# Delia

> [!WARNING]
> This project is under active development!

The Delia project is a complement to the [Polka Storage](https://github.com/eigerco/polka-storage) project,
being the frontend for file upload to the network's providers.

## Getting Started

### Polkadot Extension

Delia will require you to use the [Polkadot.js browser extension](https://polkadot.js.org/extension/).
For instructions on how to add your own account, refer to the extension documentation:

* https://polkadot.js.org/docs/extension/usage
* https://polkadot.js.org/docs/extension/


### Setting up your balance

Before you create a deal, you need some balance in your market account.
Currently, the (local and internal) testnet provides you with a faucet function that you can find in Delia's landing page.

![](static/faucet/faucet-idle.png)

As you can imagine, once you click the button, 10 tokens will be added to your account's balance.
After clicking, you should see a success message, as below:

![](static/faucet/faucet-success.png)

> [!NOTE]
> The faucet takes a bit of time to finish,
> this is due to waiting for the transaction to be [finalized](https://docs.polkadot.com/polkadot-protocol/architecture/polkadot-chain/pos-consensus/#finality-gadget-grandpa).

Note that the faucet will only give out tokens every 24 hours, in the case you tried getting tokens earlier, you should see the following message:

![](static/faucet/faucet-error.png)

#### Checking your account's balance

You can also check your account's network and market balance with Delia:

![](static/market-balance.png)


### Preparing a storage deal

1. Start by selecting an account from the *Client Account* field.

![](static/deal-making/client-account.png)

2. Select your file, either by dragging it or clicking the following field:

![](static/deal-making/drag-n-drop.png)

3. (Optional) You can add a description to your deal.

![](static/deal-making/label.png)

4. Select your deal's duration.

![](static/deal-making/duration.png)

5. Finally, select your storage providers:

![](static/deal-making/select-provider.png)

6. Click "Continue" to sign your deals and you're done!
   After the deal is finished, you should receive a receipt file,
   it will come in handy to retrieve your files!


### Retrieve your file

To retrieve your file, simply upload the receipt you received upon finishing your deals
in the "Deal Retrieval" page and press "Continue".

![](static/deal-retrieval/widget.png)
